welcome to the poor man's gourmet
kitchen where we share gourmet recipes
and a little bit of wonder now check
this out start now with some onion and
of course and russet potatoes
and we've got to have bacon
that the bacon go on a hot pan first
thing
once you get that cooked start throwing
in the onions take advantage of the
bacon grease there it will help season
those really well a little bit of sugar
helps the caramelizing process which
will help flavor the onions as well I
can't go wrong with some black pepper
either
but just turn all this together
incorporating it really gives a good
base to start our clam chowder a little
bit of melted butter as soon as that
gets about mounted at least halfway
anyway you can incorporate all of it
together with a little bit of cooking
wine
flower is going to help us thicken this
up
you can see it dries it out almost
instantly will become very pasty the
same way Aroo does before it burns we're
going to add some canned clams and
definitely definitely at the juice it's
going to add a lot of flavor to the clam
chatter don't read some pour it out add
it to your soup
once you get it all stirred in it looks
like this you can start adding your
cream just going to add a little bit at
a time you want to control this so you
don't ruin it but as the Heat's on which
is about a medium I need got to watch
the bottom of your pan especially if
your pans then make sure you don't burn
it on the bottom it will ruin the entire
suit once you bring it up to the top
here stir it all in give it a good taste
because at this point we need to know if
we can add pepper salt whatever you'd
like in a bit we're going to add the
pepper for sure you get a lot of salt
from our bacon and from the canned clams
so we're not going to add too much salt
but it does need a little bit it's
important to have this flavor before the
whole cooking of the soup because it
will infuse and make it taste better in
the long run now the potatoes that I'm
adding here obviously need to be cooked
here for a little while but the stars of
the potato is going to help it thicken
up as it reduces
and once again make sure you have it all
off the bottom of the pan so you don't
you don't burn it and send that flavor
through the whole soup but rolling it
very tedious process but well worth it
at the end just mix it all up make sure
it's all good to go
see it's thin enough force
but now I need to ensure that potatoes
are completely cooked all the way
through almost like they are so we'll be
adding our last ingredient which is just
some fresh chopped parsley once you get
that stirred in here we're ready to
serve here in a toasted bread bowl
that's the way I like to have it
and we'll just fill it all the way to
the brim
just like that little parsley
and there you have it clam chowder right
here in the poor man's gourmet kitchen
thank you for watching and be sure to
stop by poor man's gourmet kitchen com
for more recipes and exact ingredients